---
title: "Week 6 Wrap Up - HALFWAY!"
date: 2018-02-18T01:19:01Z
---
Hooo boy.

Week 6 is finally over. I'm halfway done my batch! It doesn't feel like it's been six whole weeks.

On the other hand, the last quarterly review was only three weeks ago and that feels so far back in the past I barely even relate to the words from that time period.

Also, at time of writing, I have written 36 blog posts, including this one.

That's a lot of inane gibberish I've introduced into the world.

### Quarterly Review
The last three weeks have been simultaneously rewarding and disappointing.

I'm currently struggling with whether I should try to mimic the style of the last quarterly review, or just do whatever. I think we both know which option I'm going to choose.

Looking over my posts from the last few weeks, so much has happened, but I haven't made nearly the progress I was expecting. 

I gained a lot of new friends, and I feel a lot closer to my batchmates. In particular, I feel like I'm finding my place in the community and have started to feel less generally anxious about being too dumb to program with the adults.

However, I also have gotten much less done than I would've liked. More than anything else, that anxiety about not making enough progress, not getting enough done, has been building and building over the last few weeks. 

When it comes to programming, how much have I actually accomplished? Hardly anything, when I take a step back. Writing this out, I feel like there's so little actual programming I've done at my time in RC.

I'm happy about the relationships I'm building, but I'm much less happy about the progress I've been making, and the code that I've been writing.

During my time at RC, my batchmates have shipped [cool websites that hit the top of Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16333838), Shakespeare-generating AIs, a [truly outstanding PICO-8 game](https://brid.gs/games/just-one-boss), and that's just what comes to mind right now. I strongly recommend you check out that PICO-8 game by the way, it's seriously fantastic.

In terms of lines of code, I strongly feel that, while I've polished [open-splendor](https://github.com/farkwun/open-splendor) to the point where it's pretty much unrecognizable to where it began, I could've written it all in a couple of days.

I wonder, at this halfway mark, whether I've started to spend too much time socializing and enjoying life in a new city more than I'm actually bending my mind towards improving as a programmer and as an engineer.

The dream, I think, was that [open-splendor](https://github.com/farkwun/open-splendor) would be, if not done, then at least at a shippable level, instead of where it is now.

Oh well. We'll see what happens.

On a more positive note, I really loved pairing with CW on open-splendor, and I think I've gotten a better appreciation for the process as a whole.

### Quick Weekend Thoughts
This weekend was **exhausting**. I started off with the alumni dance party, followed that up with a deep foray into Flushing-style hot pot, and then had **two back-to-back parties** on Saturday and Sunday.

Of course, in that time period, I also had to find time to do laundry and sleep! I only managed to get one of those done.

At least the clothes are clean.

It's been so long since I've really gone dancing, and even longer since I've been dancing with friends in a packed club.

My legs hurt!

### Major Thoughts
So this last week really marked a complete nosedive when it comes to the [MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-fall-2011/assignments/) and [fast.ai](http://www.fast.ai/) courses.

I can't remember the last time I really sat down to watch the fast.ai videos, and I've put in what must be the absolute bare minimum effort into the MIT problem set.

It was still pretty fun talking about the [knapsack problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knapsack_problem) with the group, but I wasn't a huge fan of how the [final problem set of the course](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-fall-2011/assignments/MIT6_006F11_ps7.pdf) was constructed.

It might have been an issue with me, but I really did feel like what I wanted going in was some key insights about breaking down [dynamic programming problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_programming), and instead what I got was just iterations and variations on a single specific type of question.

I didn't read the lecture slides though, so take that with a grain of salt.

The major highlights this week were:

* FIGURING OUT AM'S AWFUL SEQUENCE
* Buying cake for everyone to celebrate the February birthdays!
* Giving a non-technical talk on acting fundamentals
* Having an AWESOME pair-programming session with CW!

### Work Done
open-splendor is so close to being ready to face a back-end!

Ignoring the fact that this was probably the single least productive week I've ever had at RC (what with the parties, the cake, the non-technical talks, all of it), I still managed to finish a lot of the [Redux](https://redux.js.org/introduction) stuff, even if I still think that there are places in the code where I'm doing some stupid stuff.

I also managed to get a basic understanding of [react-router](https://github.com/ReactTraining/react-router) and, with CW's help, I put together a basic landing page for the application.

Still. Not a lot done this week.

### Big Lessons
Pairing can be AMAZING if you find the right person and just jump right in.

It's super worth it to pair on stuff if you get stuck.

Looking back, I think I was falling into a general pattern of mostly talking through any problems I was running into and asking questions instead of managing to get someone next to me and actually keep me on track!

While that's definitely less of an awful time commitment (answering a question might only take a couple of minutes), I think I was starting to get discouraged with what I felt was an insurmountable heap of Things I Didn't Know.

It was only through actually pairing that we were able to push through to the other side and actually make real progress!

Still, I wonder how good pairing actually is in the general case. Maybe something to find out?

### Next Week Goals
Start either mocking out a server or get a server working for real.

### Interests/Stuff to work on
* Code up Knapsack problem!
* Splendor in React!
* Morning Golang prep!
* Even more CTF!
* [fast.ai](http://www.fast.ai/)
* Something in Prolog??
* PICO-8?
* Something with compilers? Maybe just the lexing and parsing side?
* Something in OCaml??
* SOMETHING FUNCTIONAL (programmatically and literally)
* Kubernetes!
* MongoDB!
